# Bio-Inspired-Computation-Final

## Introduction
### Augmenting PSO

This project is an extension of the Particle Swarm Optimization algorithm. The original algorithm is a heuristic optimization technique that is used to find the global minimum of a function. The algorithm is based on the social behavior of birds flocking or fish schooling. Each particle in the swarm represents a potential solution to the optimization problem. The particles are updated iteratively based on three terms: the particle's current position, the particle's best known position, and the best known position of all particles in the swarm. The three terms are combined using a weighting factor and added to the particle's current position. The new position is then evaluated and compared to the particle's best known position. If the new position is better, the particle's best known position is updated. The new position is also compared to the best known position of all particles in the swarm. If the new position is better, the best known position of all particles in the swarm is updated. The algorithm is repeated until a stopping criterion is met. The stopping criterion can be a maximum number of iterations or a minimum change in the best known position of all particles in the swarm.

Our augmentation is focused on finding a better way to implement the social parameter. In vanilla PSO, the social term is just made of the global best know location and a weighting factor. We wanted to see if we could improve the algorithm in two ways. First, the social weight would not be static the whole time. The weight will be a function of the density of the current particles. The idea here is that as the simulation goes on and particles start to group up, they have probably started to find the minimum. Therefore, the social weight should be higher to move stragglers to the group. Secondly, using similar reasoning, we will explore the effect of reducing the number of particles in the swarm as the simulation goes on. This will be implemented by having particles that collide combine with each other. The combined particle will have the average position of the two particles and the average velocity of the two particles. 
